# hello_gouraud
The gouraud shader assignment from CPSC-486
Name: Victor G. Balcazar
Contact Info: victorbalcazar3@hotmail.com

Description: The purpose of this project is to make sure the student understands the differences between a gouraud shader and a blinn-phong shader. The assignment provides the student with an already made program that already contains a blinn-phong shader.
The project uses glsl 1.20 which means that the use of in and out variables still did not exist and were instead called varying variables, which served much the same purpose, only being slightly missnamed in my opinion. 
At first I was dumbfounded by what I was looking at since I had no clue how a shader worked. I continued like this for a few hours until I decided that reading the book was probably my best bet. I reread chapter 2, most of the words still meant little to me. so I decided go to the professor's office to see if he could explain the subject better to me. What was a gouraud shader? Why had I found a forum post describing it as the opposite of a blinn-phong shader? These were questions that I had that were only ever anwered after a herculean effort on the part of the professor and the dinky plum I call my brain. His explanation made sense. If I look at teh OpenGL machine I can see (with effort) that it is calculating points lines and polygons then calculating their colors by interpolation. Blinn-Phong uses a method known as per-fragment, meaning that the bulk of the calculations are done in the fragment shader while and assigns the color to a pixel. While the vertex shader only passed vertices and the normal of the plane.
In contrast, the Gouraud shader is a per vertex shader, meaning that the calculations were done in the vertex shader while the fragment color only assigned a color to the pixel. 
I looked at the code and saw at the very bottom that gl_fragColor just took in a color, I assumed that was assigning the color to a pixel and I was right. From there it was a matter of seeing what code I needed to move around and what I needed to add. Since I knew the color calculation needed to be done in the vertex I changed the function to the vertex shader. I created a varying color called myColor and did the calculations that had been done in the fragment shader previously. This worked out fine and mimicked what had been done before to make the other light appear, afterwards I just passed the vec4 color to the fragment shader where it was assigned to the pixel.
